# Stock-Movement-Prediction
Deep learning plays a crucial role in many fields, including computer vision, self-driving cars, behavior analysis, natural language processing (NLP), and medicine, to name a few. The financial sector comes as no surprise where deep learning is used extensively. The Transformer Neural Network model is one of the most novel advancements in the sector of Deep Learning and Machine vision. In this research, we use the Transformer architecture to predict Closing Price rise and fall on the Amazon (AMZN) dataset. Analyzing this time series, we predict our evaluation metrics in the form of a rising and falling plot and consider evaluation errors if any. The application of this Transformer model in the near future would be explosive considering the fact that today’s world is shifting towards ‘algorithmic trading’ as a whole. Considering the Amazon (AMZN) timeseries dataset in this paper we have solely made and demonstrated a comparison as to why the Transformer model once used only in Natural language processing 
applications is highly beneficial in these non- linear pattern prediction applications in the FinTech domain. The applicability and usefulness of our model is 
demonstrated by its ability to predict clodsing-prices with a significant probability rate. Our work on this dataset would significantly encourage the fintech domain to adopt the ‘transformer deep net’ model.

The closing-price of Amazon (AMZN) stocks are predicted and plotted with the actual closing-price. We attained the actual closing parameter value trend and the predicted close price value trend very close to each other. Therefore, the transformer model on the given dataset of Amazon (AMZN) works well and the result obtained is as desired. For stock price prediction, we propose a transformer-based model. According to the hyperparameters we display for the 3 models used here namely ‘ARIMA’, ‘LSTM (RNN)’ and ‘Transformer’, the transformer performs significantly better than the others. As observed transformers are faster than actual RNN-based models such as LSTM as all the input are ingested once. We evaluated the models through various parameters after training and testing the validated score of MSE was obtained for the given Amazon Stocks Time series dataset. The training and evaluation demonstrated that the suggested model architectures sufficed for identifying complex patterns in financial time series irregularities. Transformer architecture also shows inflections in stock graphs as observed in the results.

Model Type | Mean Square error || 
Transformer - 0.0004091,
LSTM (RNN)  -  0.0004397
ARIMA       -  0.0004791
